README.md, before:

This open source Java library allows you to integrate Facebook into your Android application.

Except as otherwise noted, the Facebook Connect Android SDK is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Alpha Status
============

This is an _alpha_ release. In order to guide the development of the library and allow you to freely inspect and use the source, we have open-sourced the library. The underlying APIs are generally stable, however we may make changes to the library in response to developer feedback.

Known Issues
------------

In the Facebook login dialog, the WebKit WebView password field misaligns text input and does not display correctly on Android 2.0 and 2.1.  This is reportedly corrected in Android 2.2 (Froyo): see http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=5596

As of May 25, 2010, there is a race condition in the "stream.publish" UI dialog that may prevent the text input box from appearing; this will be corrected with the next server push.

The example app does not automatically redraw a dialog if the screen orientation changes.

Binary API parameters (such as uploading pictures) is not yet supported -- coming soon!

Getting Started
===============

The SDK is lightweight and has no external dependencies. Getting started is quick and easy.

Install necessary packages
--------------------------

* Follow the (http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html)[Android SDK Getting Started Guide].  You will probably want do set up a device emulator and debugging tools (such as using "adb logcat" for viewing the device debugging and error log).

* Pull this repository from github

     git clone git@github.com:facebook/facebook-android-sdk.git

To build with Eclipse (3.5), do the following:

* Create a new project for the Facebook SDK in your Eclipse workspace. 
  * Open the __File__ menu, select New --> Project and choose __Android Project__, then click Next.
  * Select "Create project from existing source"
  * Select the __facebook__ subdirectory from within the git repository at the location. 
  * You should see the project properties populated, and you can click Finish to continue.

The Facebook SDK is now configured and ready to go.  

If you already have an Android application, you can add a dependency to your application on the SDK by right-clicking on your project in the Package Explorer, selecting Properties, and adding the dependency in the Library section of the Android tab. 

Run the sample application
--------------------------

To test the SDK, you should run the simple sample application.  You can do this with Eclipse (3.5) as follows:

* Create the sample application in your workspace:
  * Repeat as described above, but choose the __examples/simple__ subdirectory from within the git repository.

Build the new project and update any dependencies.

Create a Run Configuration under Android Application and Launch the default activity.  To run a sample application on a real device, follow the instructions at http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/device.html 

Create your own application
---------------------------

* Create a Facebook Application: http://www.facebook.com/developers/createapp.php
* Check out the mobile documentation: http://developers.facebook.com/docs/guides/mobile/

Usage
=====

With the Android SDK, you can do three main things:

* Authorize users: prompt users to log in to facebook and grant access permission to your application.

User credentials are not handled by the Android application in this SDK: authentication is done in an embedded WebKit WebView using the OAuth 2.0 User-Agent flow to obtain an access token.

* Make API requests

Requests to the Facebook Graph and older APIs are supported in this SDK.  Authenticated requests are done over https using the OAuth access token.

* Display a Facebook dialog

The SDK supports several WebView html dialogs for user interactions, such as creating a wall post.  This is intended to provided quick Facebook functionality without having to implement a native Android UI and pass data to facebook directly though the APIs.

Authentication and Authorization
--------------------------------

User login and application permission requests use the same method: authorize(). By default, if you pass an empty ''permissions'' parameter, then you will get access to the user's basic information., which includes their name, profile picture, list of friends and other general information. For more information, see http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/.

If you pass in extra permissions in the permissions parameter (e.g. "publish_stream", "offline_access"), then the user will be prompted to grant these permissions.  "offline_access" is particularly useful, as it avoids access expiration and ongoing prompts to the user for access.  See http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/permissions 

This SDK uses the (http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2)["user-agent"] flow from OAuth 2.0 for authentication details.

To authorize a user, the simplest usage is:

     facebook = new Facebook();
     facebook.authorize(context, applicationId, new String[] {}, new LoginDialogListener());

The authorize method is asynchronous, generating a dialog with WebView content from Facebook, prompting the user to log in and grant access.  The DialogListener is a callback interface that your application must implement: it's methods will be invoked when the dialog process completes or ends in error.

See the sample applications for more specific code samples.

When the user wants to stop using Facebook integration with your application, you can call the logout method to clear all application state and make a server request to invalidate the current OAuth 2.0 token.

     facebook.logout(context);

Accessing the Graph API
-----------------------

The (http://developers.facebook.com/docs/api)[Facebook Graph API] presents a simple, consistent view of the Facebook social graph, uniformly representing objects in the graph (e.g., people, photos, events, and fan pages) and the connections between them (e.g., friend relationships, shared content, and photo tags).

You can access the Graph API by passing the Graph Path to the ''request'' method. For example, to access information about the logged in user, call

    facebook.request("me");               // get information about the currently logged in user
    facebook.request("platform/posts");   // get the posts made by the "platform" page
    facebook.request("me/friends");       // get the logged-in user's friends

The request call is synchronous, meaning it will block the calling thread -- it should not be called from the main (UI) thread in Android. To make it non-blocking, you can make the request in a separate or background thread. For example:

    new Thread() {
      @Override public void run() {
         String resp = request("me");
	 handleResponse(resp);
      }
    }.start();

See the AsyncFacebookRunner class and sample application for examples of making asynchronous requests.

Note that the server response is in JSON string format.  The SDK provides a Util.parseJson() method to convert this to a JSONObject, whose fields and values can be inspected and accessed.  The sample implementation checks for a variety of error conditions and raises JSON or Facebook exceptions if the content is invalid or includes an error generated by the server.  Advanced applications may wish to provide their own parsing and error handling. 

The (http://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/rest/)[Old REST API] is also supported. To access the older methods, pass in the named parameters and method name as a dictionary Bundle.

    Bundle parameters = new Bundle();
    parameters.putString("method", "auth.expireSession");
    String response = request(parameters);

See the javadoc for the request method for more details.

User Interface Dialogs
----------------------

This SDK provides a method for popping up a Facebook dialog.  The currently supported dialogs are the login and permissions dialogs used in the authorization flow, and a "stream.publish" flow for making a wall post.  The dialog method requires an Android context to run in, an action to perform, and a DialogListener callback interface for notification that must be implemented by the application.  For example,

    facebook.dialog(context, "stream.publish", new SampleDialogListener()); 

This allows you to provide basic Facebook functionality in your application with a singe line of code -- no need to build native dialogs, make API calls, or handle responses.

Error Handling
--------------

For synchronous methods (request), errors are thrown by exception. For the asynchronous methods (dialog, authorize), errors are passed to the onException methods of the listener callback interface.

Commit message:

Update README with configuration changes and latest information

README.md, after:

*June 4, 2010: The project configuration has been updated based on user feedback to reduce the number of configuration problems in Eclipse, and to provide better support for those using other build tools, such as Ant.  If you pull this configuration from GitHub, you may need to update your project configuration, or create a new project with your source -- see the set up instructions below.*

This open source Java library allows you to integrate Facebook into your Android application.

Except as otherwise noted, the Facebook Connect Android SDK is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Alpha Status
============

This is an _alpha_ release. In order to guide the development of the library and allow you to freely inspect and use the source, we have open-sourced the library. The underlying APIs are generally stable, however we may make changes to the library in response to developer feedback.

Known Issues
------------

In the Facebook login dialog, the WebKit WebView password field misaligns text input and does not display correctly on Android 2.0 and 2.1.  This is corrected in Android 2.2 (Froyo): see http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=5596

The example app does not automatically redraw a dialog if the screen orientation changes.

Binary API parameters (such as uploading pictures) is not yet supported -- coming soon, but if you have already implemented it, feel free to send us a patch!

The dialog webviews may be blank if an error occurs -- we are working on figuring these out and providing more debugging information.  Sorry for the frustration.

Getting Started
===============

The SDK is lightweight and has no external dependencies. Getting started is quick and easy.

Install necessary packages
--------------------------

* Follow the (http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html)[Android SDK Getting Started Guide].  You will probably want do set up a device emulator and debugging tools (such as using "adb logcat" for viewing the device debugging and error log).

* Pull this repository from github

     git clone git@github.com:facebook/facebook-android-sdk.git

To build with Eclipse (3.5), do the following:

* Create a new project for the Facebook SDK in your Eclipse workspace. 
  * Open the __File__ menu, select New --> Project and choose __Android Project__, then click Next.
  * Select "Create project from existing source"
  * Select the __facebook__ subdirectory from within the git repository at the location. 
  * You should see the project properties populated, and you can click Finish to continue.

The Facebook SDK is now configured and ready to go.  

If you already have an Android application, you can add a dependency to your application on the SDK by right-clicking on your project in the Package Explorer, selecting Properties, and adding the dependency in the Library section of the Android tab. 

Run the sample application
--------------------------

To test the SDK, you should run the simple sample application.  You can do this with Eclipse (3.5) as follows:

* Create the sample application in your workspace:
  * Repeat as described above, but choose the __examples/simple__ subdirectory from within the git repository.

Build the new project and update any dependencies.

Create a Run Configuration under Android Application and Launch the default activity.  To run a sample application on a real device, follow the instructions at http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/device.html 

Create your own application
---------------------------

* Create a Facebook Application: http://www.facebook.com/developers/createapp.php
* Check out the mobile documentation: http://developers.facebook.com/docs/guides/mobile/

Usage
=====

With the Android SDK, you can do three main things:

* Authorize users: prompt users to log in to facebook and grant access permission to your application.

User credentials are not handled by the Android application in this SDK: authentication is done in an embedded WebKit WebView using the OAuth 2.0 User-Agent flow to obtain an access token.

* Make API requests

Requests to the Facebook Graph and older APIs are supported in this SDK.  Authenticated requests are done over https using the OAuth access token.

* Display a Facebook dialog

The SDK supports several WebView html dialogs for user interactions, such as creating a wall post.  This is intended to provided quick Facebook functionality without having to implement a native Android UI and pass data to facebook directly though the APIs.

Authentication and Authorization
--------------------------------

User login and application permission requests use the same method: authorize(). By default, if you pass an empty ''permissions'' parameter, then you will get access to the user's basic information., which includes their name, profile picture, list of friends and other general information. For more information, see http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/.

If you pass in extra permissions in the permissions parameter (e.g. "publish_stream", "offline_access"), then the user will be prompted to grant these permissions.  "offline_access" is particularly useful, as it avoids access expiration and ongoing prompts to the user for access.  See http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/permissions 

This SDK uses the (http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2)["user-agent"] flow from OAuth 2.0 for authentication details.

To authorize a user, the simplest usage is:

     facebook = new Facebook();
     facebook.authorize(context, applicationId, new String[] {}, new LoginDialogListener());

The authorize method is asynchronous, generating a dialog with WebView content from Facebook, prompting the user to log in and grant access.  The DialogListener is a callback interface that your application must implement: it's methods will be invoked when the dialog process completes or ends in error.

See the sample applications for more specific code samples.

When the user wants to stop using Facebook integration with your application, you can call the logout method to clear all application state and make a server request to invalidate the current OAuth 2.0 token.

     facebook.logout(context);

Accessing the Graph API
-----------------------

The (http://developers.facebook.com/docs/api)[Facebook Graph API] presents a simple, consistent view of the Facebook social graph, uniformly representing objects in the graph (e.g., people, photos, events, and fan pages) and the connections between them (e.g., friend relationships, shared content, and photo tags).

You can access the Graph API by passing the Graph Path to the ''request'' method. For example, to access information about the logged in user, call

    facebook.request("me");               // get information about the currently logged in user
    facebook.request("platform/posts");   // get the posts made by the "platform" page
    facebook.request("me/friends");       // get the logged-in user's friends

The request call is synchronous, meaning it will block the calling thread -- it should not be called from the main (UI) thread in Android. To make it non-blocking, you can make the request in a separate or background thread. For example:

    new Thread() {
      @Override public void run() {
         String resp = request("me");
	 handleResponse(resp);
      }
    }.start();

See the AsyncFacebookRunner class and sample application for examples of making asynchronous requests.

Note that the server response is in JSON string format.  The SDK provides a Util.parseJson() method to convert this to a JSONObject, whose fields and values can be inspected and accessed.  The sample implementation checks for a variety of error conditions and raises JSON or Facebook exceptions if the content is invalid or includes an error generated by the server.  Advanced applications may wish to provide their own parsing and error handling. 

The (http://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/rest/)[Old REST API] is also supported. To access the older methods, pass in the named parameters and method name as a dictionary Bundle.

    Bundle parameters = new Bundle();
    parameters.putString("method", "auth.expireSession");
    String response = request(parameters);

See the javadoc for the request method for more details.

User Interface Dialogs
----------------------

This SDK provides a method for popping up a Facebook dialog.  The currently supported dialogs are the login and permissions dialogs used in the authorization flow, and a "stream.publish" flow for making a wall post.  The dialog method requires an Android context to run in, an action to perform, and a DialogListener callback interface for notification that must be implemented by the application.  For example,

    facebook.dialog(context, "stream.publish", new SampleDialogListener()); 

This allows you to provide basic Facebook functionality in your application with a singe line of code -- no need to build native dialogs, make API calls, or handle responses.

Error Handling
--------------

For synchronous methods (request), errors are thrown by exception. For the asynchronous methods (dialog, authorize), errors are passed to the onException methods of the listener callback interface.
